yona is our 16 month old black bear cub
and she came to us on January 15 from
the appalachian bear rescue and we
noticed pretty soon after her arrival at
the museum that she was doing some
regular limping and our veterinarians
checked her out and thought it'd be a
good idea to get her in for some
radiographs and we did that and we
noticed that something wasn't right and
we decided to make all the calls and get
her in for for anything that could be
done the CT scan more radiographs with
the folks here at the North Carolina
State University that's cool even though
Jana is a very personable and relatively
young bear we have to be careful about
how we handle these sorts of large wild
creatures so when the ona arrived we
needed to give her drugs so that she
would be handleable that's sometimes a
challenge getting the creighton position
we used a very special anesthetic peanut
butter to draw her attention so we could
make the injection once we have our on
the table and intubated then we're able
to proceed pretty much the same way we
would with any other anime the cat scan
or the CT scan it's a very useful tool
for diagnosing the kinds of problems
that Jana has we were seeing Jana today
because of our problem that she has with
our front leg on the right side she had
an injury at some point and it's not
growing like it should be and we were
assessing that today messages can
gathers information by making
cross-sections making kind of little
slices virtual slices to the limb but
the software is powerful enough that we
can reconstruct limbs immediately when
we do cities which is very helpful to
make sure that we get a good CT that
there is no shift in a position of the
patient or the no void in the data and
also to have an immediate assessment
kind of a 3d assessment of things we can
see fragments on cross sections but we
see them a lot better in 3d view so we
can see where they are and so our
initial assessment allowed us to kind of
detect the presence of that fragment and
look at the general
shape of the bone the general feat of
the elbow joint that's that's very
helpful but one of the important things
that students need to learn when they're
in veterinary school is how to work with
these unusual animals so every
opportunity we have to look at animals
that are beyond what you would normally
see broadens the perspective of those
future veterinarians that will be out
helping animals in their careers